Forward compatibility indicates that
consumer code developed against the previous version of a schema,
can consume data using the latest form of the schema.
Forward compatible changes include
the addition of new fields or the deletion of an optional field.
Let's return to our purchase example once again.
Recall the schema has the following fields: Username,
currency, amount, and an optional memo.
If we were to delete the optional memo field,
this would be a forward compatible change.
Because the current code already has to handle the case,
in which the memo field may not be present,
total removal of the memo field will not cause any processing issues.
Instead, the field will simply not be present in any new data going forward.
Likewise, if we added a required field, say,
an area code to the newest schema,
our existing consumer would simply ignore that field.
As with backward compatibility,
forward compatibility has two types: Forward and forward transitive.
Forward compatibility indicates the newest schema version
is compatible with the previous version,
but not any versions prior to that.
For transitive compatibility, indicates
the newest version is compatible with all prior versions,
not just the previous version.
With forward compatible changes,
you need to update producers to use
the latest version of the schema before updating your consumers.